
<!-- Kraus2005

To investigate the dynamic association of GNE with the Golgi
compartment and to elucidate GNE targeting changes during
myogenesis, primary human myoblasts and myo- tubes were exposed
to BFA and nocodazole. 

-- dynamic association of GNE with Golgi compartment &
elucidation of GNE targeting change during myogenesis.

Double labeling of GNE and the Golgi marker protein golgin-97
reveals colocalization in myoblasts throughout the cyto- plasm
subsequent to BFA-induced collapse of Golgi stacks appearing more
vesiculated (Figs. 7A\u2013C, compare to Fig.  6). 

-- Double laveling GNE & golgi golgin-97 shows colocalization in
myoblasts throughout the cytoplasm subsequent to BFA collapse.

The nuclear localization of GNE persists in a widespread
nucleoplasmic pattern with some clustering in many small and a
few larger nuclear domains. 

-- Nuclear localization persists in nucleoplasmic pattern with
clustering in small and few larger nuclear domains.

Also, nocodazole treatment has a dramatic effect on disturbing
the Golgi

-- dramatic nocodazole effect on golgi distribution

morphology in myoblasts with extensive scattering of GNE along
with Golgi-related vesicles as visualized by colocal- ization
with golgin-97 (Figs. 7D\u2013F). 

-- extensive scattering og GNE along with golgi related vesicles 

During recovery from nocodazole exposure, reformation of the
Golgi complexes is in progress after 30 min as followed by the
marker protein golgin-97. 

As expected, GNE colocalizes to the reforming Golgi-related
compartment (Figs. 7G\u2013I). 

BFA treatment of differentiated, multinuclear myotubes yields
diffuse and vesiculated distribution of GNE along with golgin-97. 

By contrast, upon exposure to nocodazole, the Golgi morphol- ogy
in myotubes remains largely unchanged (Figs. 7M\u2013O) when
compared to the untreated cells (Figs. 6G\u2013I). 

GNE remains localized to the Golgi compartment surrounding the
myonuclei or concentrating on opposite poles. 

Note that the Golgi architecture in myotubes is highly variable.
-->


