ABSTRACT 

GNE myopathy, previously known as hereditary inclusion body
myopathy (HIBM), or Nonaka myopathy, is a rare autosomal
recessive muscle disease characterized by progressive skeletal
muscle atrophy. It has an estimated prevalence of 1 to
9:1,000,000. GNE myopathy is caused by mutations in the GNE gene
which encodes the rate-limiting enzyme of sialic acid
biosynthesis. The pathophysiology of the disease is not entirely
understood, but hyposialylation of muscle glycans is thought to
play an essential role. The typical presentation is bilateral
foot drop caused by weakness of the anterior tibialis muscles
with onset in early adulthood. The disease slowly progresses over
the next decades to involve skeletal muscles throughout the body,
with relative sparing of the quadriceps until late stages of the
disease. The diagnosis of GNE myopathy should be considered in
young adults presenting with bilateral foot drop. Histopathologic
findings on muscle biopsies include fiber size variation,
atrophic fibers, lack of inflammation, and the characteristic
"rimmed" vacuoles on modified Gomori trichome staining. The
diagnosis is confirmed by the presence of pathogenic (mostly
missense) mutations in both alleles of the GNE gene. Although
there is no approved therapy for this disease, preclinical and
clinical studies of several potential therapies are underway,
including substrate replacement and gene therapy-based
strategies. However, developing therapies for GNE myopathy is
complicated by several factors, including the rare incidence of
disease, limited preclinical models, lack of reliable biomarkers,
and slow disease progression. 

Type:   GNE Myopathy Review
Notes:
  INTRODUCTION
  [TAG: DISEASE]
        - Rare genetic muscle disease characterized by
          progressive skeletal muscle atrophy due to mutations in
          *GNE*, the gene encoding the bifunctional enzym
          UDP-N-Acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc)
          2-epimerase/N-acetylmannoseamine (ManNAc) knase
          (EC:3.2.1.183, EC:2.7.1.60).
        - Nonaka:
        - Distal Myopathy with rimmed vacuoles DMRV.
        - Early adulthood onset.
        - Predominantly affecting the anterior tibialis muscles.
        - Mild serum creatine kinase (CK) elevation.
        - Muscle histopathology characterized by fiber atrophy,
          rimmed vacuoles, lack of inflamation, and no evidence
          of regeneration [2, 3].
        - Argov & Yarom:
        - Autosomal recessive inheritance of several Iranian
          Jewish families with a rimmed vacuole myopathy that
          spared quadriceps [4].
        - Hereditary inclusion body myopathy - HIBM.
        - Other numencluture:
        - GNE myopathy [8].
        - Initially identified in Japanese and Middle Eastern
          populations, now reported worldwide.
        - Prevelace:
        - estimated at ~1 to 9/1000000 (Orphanet;
          http://www.orpha.net/).
  CLINICAL MANIFESTATION OF GNE MYOPATHY
        - Symptoms taking place between 20-40 years old patients
          [9,10].
        - Manifestations of anterior tibialis weakness, such as
          tripping, gait disturbance, inability to lift toes, or
          foot drop [9-11].
        - Result of progressive skeletal muscle atrophy and
          weakness with the subsequent impairment of function and
          quality of life.
        - Specific muscle groups and functions impacted depend
          on the muscles involved a different stages of the
          disease.
        - Progressing slowly, typically takes decades for
          parients to progress from early to late stages of the
          disease [What are the stages?].
        - The disease progresses from distal muscles of the lower
          extremities, followed by thigh muscles, with relative
          sparing of the quadriceps [4].
        - Gait becomes progressively affected, resulting in
          steppage gait, increased risk of falls, and decreased
          balance.
        - Patients may become wheelchair bound ~10-20 years after
          onset of symptoms [9,11-13]. 
        - The upper extremities are affected 5-10 years after
          onset [9,11], and do not necessarily follow the distal
          to proximal progression seen in the lower extremities.
        - In advanced stages of the disease, neck muscles can
          also be affected [10].
        - Ultimately, disease progression may result in complete
          loss of skeletal muscle function and dependence on
          caregivers [11, 12]. 
        - The disease does not affect swallowing or facial
          muscles, and it does not impair cognition.
        - Factors that affect progression are not well
          understood, genetic modifiers and environmental factors
          are thought to play a role [10,13,15-17].
        - Respiratory muscle involvement has been described at
          late stages of the disease [19].
        - While others decline this proposition [20].
        - Cardiac involvement has beed reported in mouse model of
          GNE [LOOK AT THIS CITATION] [21] but is not usually
          seen in patients.
        - 
